---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/2-rules-reference/encounter/actions/skill-actions/sneak/","noteIcon":""}
---

# Sneak
#Move #Secret 

You can attempt to move to another place while becoming or staying [[2. Rules Reference/Conditions/Degrees of Detection/Undetected\|Undetected]]. [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Basic Actions/Stride\|Stride]] up to half your Speed. (You can use Sneak while [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Specialty Actions/Burrow\|Burrowing]], [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Skill Actions/Climb\|Climbing]], flying, or [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Skill Actions/Swim\|Swimming]] instead of Striding if you have the corresponding movement type; you must move at half that Speed.)

If you’re [[2. Rules Reference/Conditions/Degrees of Detection/Undetected\|Undetected]] by a creature and it’s impossible for that creature to observe you (for a typical creature, this includes when you’re invisible, the observer is blinded, or you’re in darkness and the creature can’t see in darkness), for any critical failure you roll on a check to [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Skill Actions/Sneak\|Sneak]], you get a failure instead. You also continue to be undetected if you lose cover or greater cover against or are no longer concealed from such a creature.

At the end of your movement, the GM rolls your Stealth check in secret and compares the result to the Perception DC of each creature you were hidden from or undetected by at the start of your movement. If you have cover or greater cover from the creature throughout your [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Basic Actions/Stride\|Stride]], you gain the +2 circumstance bonus from cover (or +4 from greater cover) to your [[2. Rules Reference/Character Creation/Skills/Stealth\|Stealth]] check. Because you’re moving, the bonus increase from [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Basic Actions/Take Cover\|Taking Cover]] doesn’t apply. You don’t get to roll against a creature if, at the end of your movement, you neither are concealed from it nor have cover or greater cover against it. You automatically become observed by such a creature.

- **Success.** You’re [[2. Rules Reference/Conditions/Degrees of Detection/Undetected\|Undetected]] by the creature during your movement and remain undetected by the creature at the end of it. You become observed as soon as you do anything other than [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Skill Actions/Hide\|Hide]], [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Skill Actions/Sneak\|Sneak]], or [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Basic Actions/Step\|Step]]. If you attempt to [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Basic Actions/Strike\|Strike]] a creature, the creature remains [[2. Rules Reference/Conditions/Off-Guard\|Off-Guard]] against that attack, and you then become [[2. Rules Reference/Conditions/Degrees of Detection/Observed\|Observed]]. If you do anything else, you become observed just before you act unless the GM determines otherwise. The GM might allow you to perform a particularly unobtrusive action without being noticed, possibly requiring another [[2. Rules Reference/Character Creation/Skills/Stealth\|Stealth]] check. If you speak or make a deliberate loud noise, you become hidden instead of undetected. If a creature uses [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Basic Actions/Seek\|Seek]] and you become hidden to it as a result, you must [[2. Rules Reference/Encounter/Actions/Skill Actions/Sneak\|Sneak]] if you want to become undetected by that creature again.
- **Failure.** A telltale sound or other sign gives your position away, though you still remain unseen. You’re hidden from the creature throughout your movement and remain so.
- **Critical Failure.** You’re spotted! You’re observed by the creature throughout your movement and remain so. If you’re invisible and were hidden from the creature, instead of being observed you’re hidden throughout your movement and remain so.