---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/7-scholarly-details/arts-and-culture/titles/spiritualist/","noteIcon":""}
---

# Spiritualist

The proper title for someone who is capable of summoning [[7. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Spiritual Alchemy/Aeon\|aeons]], [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Spiritualist\|spiritualists]] are said to have toppled empires and challenged gods. In ancient times, they were venerated as saviors and feared as destroyers. Marked with [[7. Scholarly Details/Specialty Items/Key Items/Starlight Sigil\|sigils]] of starlight, these gifted few can call forth the likes of demons, dragons, angels, and elementals—but only the strongest among them can actually control the forces they unleash.

While many who dabble in the arcane become adept at beckoning entities from the farthest reaches of the planes, none are more skilled at it than the [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Spiritualist\|spiritualist]]. This practitioner of ancient magic forms a close bond with one particular entity, known as an [[7. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Spiritual Alchemy/Aeon\|Aeon]], who gains power as the [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Spiritualist\|spiritualist]] becomes more proficient at their summoning and their bond becomes stronger. It is said that the two are forever linked, each sharing a shard of their own [[7. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Essences/Essences\|essence]] in a [[7. Scholarly Details/Magic/Other Related Terms/Pact\|Pact]] that cannot be broken. 

While a [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Spiritualist\|spiritualist’s]] power comes from within and is truly their own, in the most dire and dangerous of circumstances they must be able to rely heavily on their [[7. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Spiritual Alchemy/Aeon\|Aeon]] companions to help them pull through-- for while a [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Spiritualist\|spiritualist]] and their [[7. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Spiritual Alchemy/Aeon\|Aeon]] may function as individuals, their true power lies in what they are able to accomplish together. Overall, [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Spiritualist\|spiritualists]] are very versatile and capable combatants. Since they have the potential to make a [[7. Scholarly Details/Magic/Other Related Terms/Pact\|Pact]] with such a wide variety of entities, their resulting abilities are extremely unpredictable and enable them fill a wide variety of roles on (and off) the battlefield as a result.

All [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Spiritualist\|spiritualists]] are marked by a [[7. Scholarly Details/Specialty Items/Key Items/Starlight Sigil\|Starlight Sigil]], which first appears whenever they form their [[7. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Spiritual Alchemy/Aeon\|Aeon]] [[7. Scholarly Details/Magic/Other Related Terms/Pact\|Pact]]. These distinct markings have lead to the [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Spiritualist\|spiritualists]] being called "star-touched", and have at different times in history been worn with great pride and tremendous shame. They can appear anywhere on their body, and are typically no larger than the size of a palm of the hand, though exceptions have been known to occur. A matched marking also appears on the [[7. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Spiritual Alchemy/Aeon\|aeon's]] form, though sometimes there are slight variances in angle, scale, or pigmentation. A [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Spiritualist\|spiritualist’s]] [[7. Scholarly Details/Specialty Items/Key Items/Starlight Sigil\|Starlight Sigil]] glows whenever they utilize their powers-- most commonly, whenever they are summoning their [[7. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Spiritual Alchemy/Aeon\|Aeon]] or issuing them commands in battle. 