---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/6-common-knowledge/demographics/ancestries/apparition/fey/wyldling/","noteIcon":""}
---

# Wyldling

[[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|Wyldling]] is a general term used for any [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Fey\|Fey]] who does not belong to any of the courts. These "courtless" [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Fey\|Fey]] are commonly considered to be insane-- and even from childhood are said to demonstrate strange behaviors, such as speaking to the air (or to something no one else can see), wandering into forbidden and sacred places, pointing out rude and uncomfortable truths, or weeping or screaming at odd moments. There is no "typical" personality for a [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|wyldling]], beyond this association with madness; they can be calm, violent, cheerful, or reserved, sometimes even all at once. The [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|wyldlings]] all have something about them that makes other [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Fey\|Fey]] uneasy, though-- something strange, often abnormal. For whatever reason, this often presents as an abnormal manner of communicating, such as using odd vocabulary, talking in questions or riddles, using an irregular cadence, or sometimes not speaking at all and communicating entirely in gesture.

The [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|wyldlings]] often have great magical talent, even for [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Fey\|Fey]], though no one trains them in its use. These unique gifts often present as an unusual combination of [[7. Scholarly Details/Magic/Malak Artes/Malak Artes\|malak artes]], often blending abilities associated with multiple different courts. [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|Wyldlings]] must either figure out their powers on their own, find a teacher amongst the other [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|wyldlings]], or-- very rarely-- forge a pact with a powerful entity. One ability common to all [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|wyldlings]] is the capacity to see what others do not. This may mean seeing the invisible, looking into other realms, discerning the truth amidst lies, or knowing the past or the future. Other [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Fey\|Fey]] sometimes seek out a [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|wyldling]] for divinations regarding future events, asking them to throw bones or read the stars. Some [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|wyldlings]] have managed to become rather famous seers in this way, but even so, they are not accepted into [[7. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Arcadia/Arcadia\|Arcadian]] society. 

The [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|wyldlings]] tend to either live alone or in tribes. They are reclusive and stealthy, often preferring to remain close to nature. They are rarely seen, and mostly have made their homes in the ever-shifting [[7. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Arcadia/Wyldlands/Wyldlands\|Wyldlands]] in between the settled [[7. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Arcadia/Courts of Arcadia/Courts of Arcadia\|Courts of Arcadia]], sometimes even traversing and claiming neighboring pockets of [[7. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/The Fade\|The Fade]] as their own territory. 

[[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|Wyldlings]] are strongly inclined towards chaos. Some philosophers say that this lawlessness is necessary to balance the structure of the courts, and to maintain the proper order of the world through an occasional leavening of disorder. The [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|Wyldling]] owe no fealty to anyone, neither lord nor lady nor seasonal monarch. No one can tell them what to do or how to channel their power. Conversely, they can never hold any other rank within Arcadian society, and cannot rule in [[7. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Arcadia/Arcadia\|Arcadia]]. 

Overall, [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|wyldlings]] are both revered and feared in [[7. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Arcadia/Arcadia\|Arcadia]], mostly because the laws that bind other [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Fey\|Fey]] do not apply to them-- in particular, the laws regarding killing [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Fey\|Fey]]. It rarely happens, but the [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Wyldling\|wyldlings]] have been known to slay a [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Fey\|Fey]] for no apparent reason. This kind of killing is considered the "Will of the Wylds", and it is not permitted to seek any kind of vengeance for this act. 
