---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/5-demographics/ancestries/apparition/fey/archfey/","noteIcon":""}
---

# Archfey

[[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Archfey\|Archfey]] are powerful magic users that are most commonly found in [[8. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Arcadia/Arcadia\|Arcadia]]. As a rule, all [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Archfey\|Archfey]] are expected to either command or belong to one of the [[8. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Arcadia/Courts of Arcadia/Courts of Arcadia\|Courts of Arcadia]]. They possess the power, influence, and understanding necessary to bend the surrounding [[8. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Arcadia/Wyldlands/Wyldlands\|Wyldlands]] to their will, effectively bringing the territory under the control of one of the [[8. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Arcadia/Courts of Arcadia/Courts of Arcadia\|Courts of Arcadia]]. [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Archfey\|Archfey]] generally do not gain power from being worshipped by mortals, but this does not necessarily stop them from seeking such attentions for their own personal gains. Most have an affinity for illusion and enchantment magic, though some are specialists of other kinds. 

[[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Archfey\|Archfey]] are creatures of freedom, who take joy from their own existence and long-lived lives of celebration and art. Their wild natures leave them somewhat unpredictable, but they can generally be trusted to avoid actual wickedness. [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Archfey\|Archfey]] are archenemies to all manner of [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Divine/Devil\|devils]], and have extremely short tempers in regards to their response towards oppression and enslavement. However, unlike [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Divine/Seraph\|seraphs]], [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Archfey\|Archfey]] typically avoid direct combat, often preferring to work behind the scenes to vanquish their foes rather than dealing with them face-on. But when push comes to shove, [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Archfey\|Archfey]] are more than capable opponents who fight with cleverness and without fear.  

Some [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Archfey\|Archfey]] are members of [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Fey\|Fey]] ancestries who have acquired power gradually until they reach their current position-- much in the same way an archmage was once an ordinary citizen before acquiring power and mastery of skill over their lifetime-- though others may inherit their power from their bloodline. However, since [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Archfey\|Archfey]] are usually immortal, they been often acquiring their power for a very, *very* long time... and are extremely reticent to relinquish it. As such, it is very unusual (and noteworthy) for a new [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Fey/Archfey\|Archfey]] to rise to power. 
