---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/7-scholarly-details/arts-and-culture/documents/goetic-grimoire/","noteIcon":""}
---

# Goetic Grimoire

The Goetic Grimoire is a collection of [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Languages/Abyssal\|Abyssal]] writings penned by the ancient [[5. Factions/The Luminari/The Luminari\|The Luminari]], likely as a result of their frequent dealings with [[3. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Demon\|demons]] and [[3. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Daemon\|daemons]]. It is made up of a number of individual texts and their accompanying illustrations and amulets. At present, some 192 volumes are known, though no single collection contains them all. 

The individual volumes serve a range of purposes. Some are intended to give the deceased mystical knowledge in the afterlife, and others are seemingly designed to draw the attention of certain gods. Others are incantations to ensure that different [[7. Scholarly Details/Alchemy/Forbidden Alchemy/Spiritual Alchemy/Parts of the Soul\|elements of a dead person's soul]] are preserved and reunited, or to invoke [[7. Scholarly Details/Deities/Local Gods/Mythos\|Mythos]] and appeal them to change an individual's fate. Others still protect a deceased from various hostile spiritual forces and/or guide them safely through the underworld. Two of the most well-known volumes deal with influencing the judgement of the deceased. 

The [[5. Factions/The Luminari/The Luminari\|The Luminari]] believed that knowing the name of something gave power over it; thus, many of the volumes of the [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Documents/Goetic Grimoire\|Goetic Grimoire]] equip its owner with the mystical [[7. Scholarly Details/Alchemy/Forbidden Alchemy/Spiritual Alchemy/Nome\|Nome]] or "true names" of many entities they may encounter in their summoning, giving them power over them. 

The spells of the [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Documents/Goetic Grimoire\|Goetic Grimoire]] make use of several magical techniques that can also be seen in other areas of [[5. Factions/The Luminari/The Luminari\|The Luminari]] life and teachings. A number of the spells are for magical amulets and talismans, which can provide a variety of benefits to the user. A number of spells also refer to the [[5. Factions/The Luminari/The Luminari\|The Luminari]] traditions of henna body painting, hieroglyphic etching, jewelry making, and crystal and glasswork.  