---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/7-common-knowledge/weather/supernatural-phenomena/dead-magic-zone/","noteIcon":""}
---

# Dead Magic Zone

There are areas within [[0. Archive/Old World Atlas/Zarthura\|Zarthura]] where there has been a fundamental corruption of magic, resulting in one or more of the sources of magic becoming unusable or unresponsive. Any time any character enters a [[7. Common Knowledge/Weather/Supernatural Phenomena/Dead Magic Zone\|Dead Magic Zone]], they temporarily gain certain restrictions depending on the type of [[7. Common Knowledge/Weather/Supernatural Phenomena/Dead Magic Zone\|Dead Magic Zone]] they are in. All of these effects end once the character is no longer within a [[7. Common Knowledge/Weather/Supernatural Phenomena/Dead Magic Zone\|Dead Magic Zone]]. 

### Anti-Magic Field
In an anti-magic field, all magic of all traditions is repelled from the area, preventing any spells or other magic from functioning. Spells cannot penetrate the area, magic items cease to function within it, and no one inside can cast spells or use magical abilities. Likewise, spells such as dispel magic cannot affect the area unless they are of a higher level than the magic that is creating the effect. Magic effects resume the moment they pass outside the field. For example, a ray fired from one side of the field could target a creature on the other side (as long as the caster and target are both outside the field). Invested magic items cease to function, but they remain invested and resume functioning if and when they exit the field; the ability boost from an apex item is not suppressed within the field. Spells of a higher level than the anti-magic field are able to overcome its effects, and can even be cast by a creature within the field. 

### Decaying Nexus 
In the area surrounding a dead or decaying [[8. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Cosmic Biology/Nexus\|Nexus]], magic of the tradition(s) related to that [[8. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Cosmic Biology/Nexus\|Nexus]] cease to function. This works exactly the same as an anti-magic field, except only magic of the tradition(s) connected to the [[8. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Cosmic Biology/Nexus\|Nexus]] are suppressed. For example, if a [[8. Scholarly Details/Magic/Magical Traditions/Mana\|Mana]] caster were nearby a decaying [[8. Scholarly Details/Magic/Magical Traditions/Soma\|Soma]] [[8. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Cosmic Biology/Nexus\|Nexus]], their spellcasting would not be inhibited and they would be able to use their magic as normal. However, their druidic ally who relies on [[8. Scholarly Details/Magic/Magical Traditions/Soma\|Soma]] for their casting would not be able to use any of their spells or magical abilities. 

### Aeonic Disruption
A summoned creature winks out of existence, but reappear when the character who summoned them has exited the [[7. Common Knowledge/Weather/Supernatural Phenomena/Dead Magic Zone\|Dead Magic Zone]]. Under normal circumstances, this does not apply to [[8. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Spiritual Alchemy/Aeon\|aeons]], as the [[8. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Spiritual Alchemy/Syzygy\|Syzygy]] bond keeps them tethered to their [[8. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Scion\|Scion]]. However, it is possible for the use of an [[8. Scholarly Details/Specialty Items & Materials/Key Items/Artifacts/Aeonic Disrupter\|Aeonic Disrupter]] to cause an [[8. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Spiritual Alchemy/Aeon\|Aeon]] to be forcibly dismissed and unable to be summoned in their normal way until the [[8. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Scion\|Scion]] has left the effected area.  