---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/6-common-knowledge/demographics/versatile-heritages/mixed-lineage/nephilim/aasimar/","noteIcon":""}
---

# Aasimar

[[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Aasimar\|Aasimar]] are [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Nephilim\|Nephilim]] descendants of [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Extraplanar/Extraplanar\|Extraplanar]] entities who demonstrate a strong innate talent for [[7. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Essences/Polarities/Radiant\|Radiant]] abilities. [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Aasimar\|Aasimar]] are usually prized from birth, and their communities ensure that these blessed children are given much encouragement to follow their divine destiny. [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Aasimar\|Aasimar]] often devote themselves to a church, becoming champions or clerics, though more artistic [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Aasimar\|Aasimar]] may tend toward a career as a bard.

[[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Aasimar\|Aasimar]] often have minor physical indicators of their unusual ancestry. These differences can span a wide range from the subtle to the obvious, but most often are exemplified by an unearthly beauty, hair that shines like metal, strange eye color, or glowing golden halos. In many cases an [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Aasimar\|Aasimar]]'s beauty is not due to physical traits, but rather to a supernatural tendency among others to interpret their features as beautiful or attractive. This heritage can remain hidden for generations and unexpectedly appear in the offspring of two seemingly human parents.

[[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Aasimar\|Aasimar]] also tend to have strong, confident personalities, with minds that are not easily shaken by doubt or misdirection. They are often quite insightful and perceptive, able to formulate coherent and persuasive arguments with little effort. Like their ancestors, many [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Aasimar\|Aasimar]] have an increased power over light and dark, displaying the ability to see in complete darkness for limited distances and spontaneously generate daylight. They also inherit a strong resistance to cold, heat or fire, and corrosive effects.

Most [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Aasimar\|Aasimar]] alive in [[0. Archive/Sharum Mal'Kari\|Sharum Mal'Kari]] today are not, in fact, direct descendants of [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Extraplanar/Extraplanar\|Extraplanar]] entities, but are generated from holy blessings or the leftover energies of holy places. The possibility of an [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Aasimar\|Aasimar]] birth continues to many generations after any such union, even when two mortals have children, so long as one of the mortals is a direct descendant of the celestial. [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Aasimar\|Aasimar]] can also be born from the union of the half-celestial with another mortal being. 