---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/3-campaign-journal/chapter-0-oblivion/0-1-incense-and-iron/","noteIcon":""}
---

# 0.1 - Incense and Iron

**

May 17, 2024 | [Age of Ascension](https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=YzVobTZkcG82a29qMGI5amNvbzM0YjlrY29zajBiYjI2a29tY2I5cGNsaDY4b2huNmRoNjRvcGw2c18yMDI0MDUxOCBrZXZpbmIua2V2aW5iQG0)

Attendees: 

Kacey, Drew, Emory, Gen, Kevin

# FLASH FORWARD SEQUENCE: DAY ?

We’re already in trouble

[[8. Scholarly Details/Metaphysics/Spiritual Alchemy/Aeon\|Aeon]]’s are with us

[[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Maeve\|Maeve]] brings us to a large room with a large table. One man sits at the end  
Black set of leather armor, silver gauntlets, sharp silver eyes that watch us. Black bird perched on throne

  

Everything started when the “Registry” was announced  
- Thats when she knew for sure that we were there

- [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Maeve\|Maeve]] mentions: [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Raziel\|Raziel]] is the only person she believes can accomplish something like this  
  
[[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Raziel\|Raziel]]: experiment man, he’s in charge of what we went through.  
Studied up and perfected.

  

# FLASHBACK SEQUENCE: DAY 1

Experiment:

20 at first, only us left

A crystal was part of this experiment, it was “already full”

Coffin, smoke, chanting, [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Raziel\|Raziel]]’s voice, his chanting was guiding, said: *missed

General vibe: [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Daemon\|Daemon]]ic cult bad juju, something about pain offering blood

Second voice pierces through:

*Kasey made fun queue cards to make life easier, thank you Kacey!!

Nigredo

- “ The road ahead comes with pain. Take it only when you have enough blood to affect it.
    

Albedo

- Dreams make for good stories, but everything important happens when we are awake, for that is when we make things happen.
    

Citrinas

-  Real loss only occurs when you love something else more than yourself
    

Rubedo

- You must be willing to kill the person you were born to be to become the person you were meant to be.
    

  

Cute Rogue Celestine Guy: Writing down notes

Pretty Heterochromia Woman Celestine: Inspecting Pillar

Hot but Evil Priest: Casually walks up and is not concerned with our results

  

They’re throwing us into a fight after events in the pod.

We’re allowed to bring any of our items in with us:

- [[1. Overview/Core Party/Shae\|Rogue girl (who lost an arm)]] takes everything
    
- [[1. Overview/Core Party/Jair\|Silver man]] takes a med kit
    
- [[1. Overview/Core Party/Hideaki\|Hideaki]] takes his orb, and a book
    
- [[1. Overview/Core Party/Marlow\|I]] take my Rapier and Dueling cape
    

[[1. Overview/Core Party/Jair\|Silver haired boy]] uses snow magic, [[1. Overview/Core Party/Hideaki\|Hide]] uses grease and [[1. Overview/Core Party/Shae\|girl with one arm]] stabs it to death.

[[1. Overview/Core Party/Marlow\|Marlow]] did a sick flip dolphin dive attack.

  

We won!!!! Roar of applause!

  

We give back our stuff, they let us keep one.

[[1. Overview/Core Party/Shae\|Rogue girl]] tries to sneak an item, we tag team that situation and manage to sneak something (???) past the guards.

- [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Niles\|Niles]] chewing gum on the job, might have a sweet tooth.
    

We’re out! Time to celebrate! Nope, [[1. Overview/Core Party/Hideaki\|Hide]] cuts me off with work time.

[[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Maeve\|Maeve]]’s in trouble. 

Glass eyed and dizzy. Hears voices from… up? Might be a [[Yokai\|Yokai]] thing according to [[1. Overview/Core Party/Hideaki\|Hide]]. Might also be [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Daemon\|Daemon]] that's causing [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Maeve\|Maeve]]'s issue. Marlow brought everyone to [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Daemon\|Daemon]] /= [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Demon\|Demon]] 101.

  

Team goes to see [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Clementine\|Clementine]]. She gives us a lead. Someone in Oblivion might be here on purpose investigating [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Daemon\|Daemon]] stuff. She wants to go into the Arena. 

We’ve got connections to the Kitchen - [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Irene\|Irene]] wants [[1. Overview/Core Party/Shae\|Kelly]] to stop selling sweets and messing with her sales. [[1. Overview/Core Party/Shae\|Kelly]] begrudgingly accepts. 

  

[[1. Overview/Core Party/Hideaki\|Hide]], [[1. Overview/Core Party/Jair\|Jair]] and [[1. Overview/Core Party/Shae\|Kelly]] go to library while I wait for sweets.

Mechanical arm guy in library = [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Sullivan\|Sullivan]], believes in the system. 

- Is surprised that we got out. 
    

He doesn't think there have ever been any quite like us. Does not believe we will be let out.

Music? Sometimes prisoners would wander aimlessly and when they would try guiding them back to their rooms, they would resist because they wanted to listen to the music, but they couldn't.

Different people react differently. This siren's song of hypnotism. 

[[1. Overview/Core Party/Shae\|Kelly]] and [[1. Overview/Core Party/Jair\|Jair]] find book on [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Daemon\|Daemon]]s:

Number of different ways a [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Demon\|Demon]] seduces its victims. 

Uses of melody and song to draw them under their spell. 

Ways to defend yourself: The author suggests only the strong of heart can withstand a [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Demon\|Demon]]'s advances. 

Likely there would be a reference to a cursed and ancient cult said to have been worshiping [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Demon\|Demon]]s.

  

Cookies are done! [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Niles\|Niles]] is also done (with his shift). 

Goblin guard’s there, not [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Niles\|Niles]].

Plan B: Just gave [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Clementine\|Clementine]] the cookies, she can handle it tomorrow

  

> Going to bed

[[1. Overview/Core Party/Shae\|Kelly]] has fun interaction with [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Peyton\|Peyton]].  
  

[[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Valentina\|Valentina]] is the best gal pal: Provides clues on people acting weird!  
- Noticed in particular, [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Rory\|Rory]], Collette and [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Mallory\|Mallory]] seem to be quieter than usual. She has not  
seen [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Ike\|Ike]] for a long time.

  
[[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Maeve\|Maeve]]’s gonna get better I’m sure

  
Poor [[1. Overview/Core Party/Jair\|Jair]]

# FLASHBACK SEQUENCE: DAY 2

DAY 2 START

  

Go to the arena to find [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Mallory\|Mallory]].

Managed to convince [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Niles\|Niles]] to let me in to talk to [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Mallory\|Mallory]].

[[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Mallory\|Mallory]]’s not doing so well

She’s hearing the voices

Asks me if I’m religious

Tell her sorta truth

> Oh she’s really not ok

[[1. Overview/Core Party/Marlow\|Marlow]] gets her to close her eyes and think of things that matter to her.

[[1. Overview/Core Party/Marlow\|Marlow]] used their [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Artificial/Doppelganger\|Doppelganger]]’s disguise to imitate a [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Divine/Seraph\|Seraph]]. Used a face they believed to be seraphic, beautiful, yet ethereal and definitely not [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Human\|Human]].

Manages to calm her down and bring her back hope. 

Gotta cover up my tracks - Gaslights her into thinking she was just transported into a conversation with an angel of her god.

 > Hope restored!!!!

Tell everyone she heard the voices she needed to hear and got better.

  

We move to dining hall

[[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Clementine\|Clementine]]!

- Big Crystal in the arena?
    
- She high
    
- [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Rory\|Rory]]’s the name! He’s at the gym for sure
    

  

We go to see [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Rory\|Rory]]:

- He’s difficult to reason with at first
    
- [[1. Overview/Core Party/Jair\|Jair]] opens up the floor to make a deal
    
- [[1. Overview/Core Party/Marlow\|Marlow]] manages to talk with him further in [[8. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Languages/Abyssal\|Abyssal]]
    
- Tells us to meet in church. Watch out for [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Helena\|Helena]]
    
- Oh. [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Ramsey\|Ramsey]] sucks
    

  

[[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Rory\|Rory]] Church talk:  
- [[5. Demographics/Versatile Heritages/Mixed Lineage/Nephilim/Nephilim\|Devakim]]

- On the Voices:

- something very old, or something incredibly new.

- His father,when he was little, told him stories of the old world:

- Nothing in this world that he needed to be afraid of because the call of [[8. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Erebus/The Abyss\|the Abyss]] could not reach them here. 

  

[[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Demon\|Demon]]s 102: Call of [[8. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Erebus/The Abyss\|the Abyss]]

- This is the primary reason why [[5. Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Demon\|Demon]]s make that journey, from [[8. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Erebus/Erebus\|Erebus]] to [[0. Archive/Old World Atlas/Zarthura\|Zarthura]]. 
    
- They’re fleeing the call of [[8. Scholarly Details/Cosmology/Inner Planes/Erebus/The Abyss\|the abyss]]. They’re fleeing that terror.
    
- It draws them in, makes them slaves to them. 
    
- Even though they’re hunted here, its at least better than being a slave. 
    
- One of the biggest dangers of living in the human world is that you forget yourself.
    
- Figure out what made her listen in the first
    
- We need to listen to something else, we need to hear something else. 
    

  

Lets save [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Maeve\|Maeve]]!

  

Back to Dorm:

- Team manages to talk to [[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Maeve\|Maeve]].
    
- She misses her old land
    
- Her lord believes in her
    
- Someone took something from her
    
- An orb
    

- An orb was stolen, the “emperor” is trying to use it to open the ruins
    

[[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Maeve\|Maeve]] is back!

  

NEW PLAN:

We gotta bounce: 

She tells us that [[6. Factions/Celestine\|Celestine]]'s technology has advanced way beyond expectations. 

[[_. GM Screen/Construction Zone/WIP Entities/NPC Compendium/Prologue/Maeve\|Maeve]] came here to look into this technology. She got too close.

  

Objective #1

- Overload circuits
    
- Will neutralize a lot of the defenses around here
    

  

Objective #2

- Generally sabotage infrastructure
    

  

Objective #3

- Get allies
    

  

Bonus Objective #4

- Destroy [[6. Factions/Celestine\|Celestine]] Research
    

  

Bonus Objective #5

- Recover Personal Equipment  
      
    

  
  
**