---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/5-dramatis-personae/factions/noble-houses/mazzaroth/"}
---

# Mazzaroth

Compared to others, the [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Noble Houses/Mazzaroth\|Mazzaroth]] are notably intelligent and ruthless, as having an analytical mindset and being observant at all times is thought to be needed to survive in their society. After all, intellect, along with charisma, are among the traits that have been ruthlessly selected for in their socially Darwinian culture over several generations. The [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Noble Houses/Mazzaroth\|Mazzaroth]] have a reputation for decadence and hedonistic tendencies, with a love for surrounding themselves with beauty and generally without paying too much attention to the cost of acquiring it. For instance, the [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Noble Houses/Mazzaroth\|Mazzaroth]] are known to commonly take lovers at their leisure and discard them at their whim-- though they are often able to avoid consequences by hiding behind a veneer of sophistication. 

The [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Noble Houses/Mazzaroth\|Mazzaroth]] are elite craftsmen who specialize in working with exotic and esoteric materials. They are famed for their technical ability, which is said to exceed that of any other living [[6. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Ancestries\|ancestry]]. Patient and deliberate in all that they do, the [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Noble Houses/Mazzaroth\|Mazzaroth]] are particularly famous for the quality of their work and their capacity to temper even the most delicate and volatile substances, especially where rare metals and arcane products such as [[7. Scholarly Details/Specialty Items/Key Items/Materia\|Materia]] are concerned. As a result, they have been responsible for the creation of a wide array of legendary weapons and artifacts, and have built mighty reliquaries to house these treasures.

After many generations of blood feuds with the [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Noble Houses/Amira\|Amira]] and their own propensity for scientific experimentation, [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Noble Houses/Mazzaroth\|Mazzaroth]] have developed a higher than normal tolerance for most poisons and a resistance to certain magics. In particular, they have been noted to have innate defenses against most sleep poisons, insect venoms, magical methods of hypnosis, and mental control spells. 

The [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Noble Houses/Mazzaroth\|Mazzaroth]] used to control [[4. Gazetteer/Diurnan Valley/Axiom/Axiom\|Axiom]] and the [[4. Gazetteer/Diurnan Valley/Diurnan Valley\|Diurnan Valley]] before [[7. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/History/The War of Bleeding Shadows\|The War of Bleeding Shadows]]. They are now based primarily out of the [[4. Gazetteer/Vale of Twilight/Vale of Twilight\|Vale of Twilight]].

