---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/4-gazetteer/eternian-empire/","noteIcon":""}
---

# The Eternian Empire

The [[4. Gazetteer/Eternian Empire\|Eternian Empire]] is located in the far south east of [[0. Archive/Sharum Mal'Kari\|Sharum Mal'Kari]], with the closest trade partners being the [[0. Archive/Old World Atlas/United Altos Isles\|United Altos Isles]], [[0. Archive/Old World Atlas/Camboragh\|Camboragh]], [[0. Archive/Old World Atlas/Nysanthus\|Nysanthus]] and The [[0. Archive/Old World Atlas/Johtaja\|Johtaja]]. The continent of Zarthura has always been mostly isolated from the rest of the world, with their waters nearly constantly churning with [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Corsairs/Corsairs\|Corsairs]] and various monsters of the deep, making travel and trade a venture only for the truly brave-- or desperate.  

The [[4. Gazetteer/Eternian Empire\|Eternian Empire]] got its name from [[8. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Monarch/Kaiser\|Kaiser]] [[5. Dramatis Personae/NPC Compendium/Silas\|Silas Braska]] who named it upon naming himself [[8. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/Titles/Monarch/Emperor\|Emperor]]. Legends say that the name came to him in a prophetic vision, and that it was meant to emphasize his people's enduring and endless legacy. 

The [[4. Gazetteer/Eternian Empire\|Eternian Empire]] is simultaneously known as a place of second chances, but also a place where only the strongest survive. These contrasting sentiments of hope and fear define daily life in Zarthura, lending to its reputation as region that is both cutthroat but fair; deadly, but welcoming; harsh, but free of prejudice. Unlike many of the modern regions of the world, The [[4. Gazetteer/Eternian Empire\|Eternian Empire]] does not evaluate their potential new citizens on their wealth, status, or bloodline-- at least, not alone. Moreso than any of these qualities, the immigration process of the Empire evaluates its candidates on two things: their desire for a new life, and their strength to see it through. It is thanks to this unusual approach that outsiders have come to refer to the [[4. Gazetteer/Eternian Empire\|Eternian Empire]] as "The Land of Fate", for it is believed that here more than anywhere else can it be said that your fate truly lies in your own hands.

Local Zarthurians are perpetually reminded that they reside in the lingering shadow of their once-magnificent history. Throughout Zarthura's landscape, remnants of the past are abound. In some [[4. Gazetteer/Provinces\|Provinces]], the local traditions and climate have allowed for time to more-or-less stand still, with these ancient constructions of times long-gone still remarkably well-preserved and functional. In others, the elements, customs, or mechanizations of fate have not been quite so generous and have left little more than a scattering of crumbling ruins that can only be spotted by a knowing eye or stumbled upon after a long day's journey well off the beaten path. 

The settled portions of the [[4. Gazetteer/Eternian Empire\|Eternian Empire]] are primarily made up of small towns and villages, where intrepid travelers can elect to withstand the dangers of the hostile wilderness in exchange for the chance to start anew. Here, it is common to find humans coexisting with ancestries who, until recently, were considered to be monstrous due to their association with [[8. Scholarly Details/Medical/Conditions/Corruption\|Corruption]], such as [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Darkspawn/Goblin\|goblins]] and [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Darkspawn/Orc\|orcs]]. The diversity found within these settlements contrasts starkly with the secretive cities of the [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/High Elf/High Elf\|high elven]] natives, who more often than not close their doors to outsiders (save for occasional traders, diplomatic convoys, or entertainers). 

The [[4. Gazetteer/Eternian Empire\|Eternian Empire]] has always been a land of many types of exotic mages and powerful warriors. Most of these formidable folk are associated with one of the [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Noble Houses/Noble Houses\|Noble Houses]] of Zarthura, which themselves are often associated with ancient cosmic powers-- primarily the moon and the sun. These powers are most present in the [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/High Elf/High Elf\|high elves]] in Zarthura (particularly the [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/High Elf/Moon Elf\|moon elves]] and the [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/High Elf/Sun Elf\|sun elves]]), who are said to be able to trace their lineage back to a time before the rule of [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Wyrmkin/Dragon\|dragons]]. Generally speaking, the [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/High Elf/High Elf\|high elves]] are highly secretive and distrustful of outsiders, so not much is publicly known about their prolific [[8. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/History/History\|history]] other than the fact that all four of the [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Noble Houses/Noble Houses\|Noble Houses]] *passionately* disagree on how it is told. 

The [[4. Gazetteer/Eternian Empire\|Eternian Empire]] is home to a wide ethnic diversity of inhabitants, but mostly this diversity is only seen in towns or small cities. Within the ancient fortresses and mighty cities of the empire, [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/High Elf/High Elf\|high elves]] are the overwhelming majority. The [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/High Elf/High Elf\|high elves]] of Zarthura typically have either very pale or dark skin, with white hair and a slender, androgynous build. While the different factions of [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/High Elf/High Elf\|high elves]] disagree on a great many things, one thing they have in common is that they firmly believe that they, due to their long [[8. Scholarly Details/Arts & Culture/History/History\|history]], are more "cultured" and "civilized" than the rest of the world, and tend to dismiss the opinions of outsiders as a result. 

Foreign tales of Zarthura often talk of [[7. Common Knowledge/Demographics/Ancestries/Apparition/Demon\|demon]]-infested ruins and "godless sorcerers" who wield strange magic wandering through the woods-- and that's not even to speak of the horrors of the [[4. Gazetteer/Red Wastes/Red Wastes\|Red Wastes]] or the endless plague of [[5. Dramatis Personae/Factions/Corsairs/Corsairs\|Corsairs]] that regularly choke trade routes both into and out of the region. Despite all of this (and more), merchants, adventurers, and the exceptionally brave (or desperate) still frequently make the trip across the unforgiving seas in hopes of either acquiring exotic magic and goods or starting life anew in the Land of Fate. 
