---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/1-overview/using-this-wiki/","noteIcon":""}
---

# Using this Wiki

The world we journey in is not defined by any texts or foretold tales. The contents of this wiki (and the various sources that inform it) can be helpful in understanding this place, but should not be relied on for face regarding history, trivia, metrics, or the details of one’s foe.

You need not worry about metagaming by using source books at my table. Other than this wiki, players are encouraged to use the Pathfinder 2nd Edition Handbook and supplemental resources in order to get the most out of playing the game. All that is found within these pages represents information that one would be likely to find in a nearby library or from a local historian-- and if you go to these lengths in our game, your character is entitled to all the knowledge they hold. 

It is worth noting that, as historical estimates and anecdotes often are, this handbook and other guides are often inaccurate and certainly incomplete. What if the great Basilisk really only has four legs, but the last time anyone fought one the lone survivor was a knight who suffered horrible brain damage, blurring his memory of the event? Would that be a likely detail to be covered by the castle’s historian? Maybe the last time an ancient green dragon was slain was in a time of swords the couldn’t hold an edge the way modern steel can. Perhaps the party a king once commissioned to seek out and slay a beholder for study failed to track one altogether, but made up a story to save their necks. It’s possible that the cat-like form of a displacer beast was just the form that particular creature chose that day, and that was the last time one ever fought anyone who cared to write it down. This is all to say-- while the guides we use are simple and effective for our use, they would not be that way in the context our characters would find them. Our guides instead allude to our character’s clumsy interpretations of the histories they would really find. Our books contain useful information and mechanics, as well as the rules we’ll stick to for building our characters and carrying out combat. They’re not a comprehensive encyclopedia for our game and they should be referenced with care.

Players are welcome to suggest additions or edits to the rules presented in this wiki. As always, the GM is the final authority on rulings and may add to, eliminate, augment or adjust these rules as necessary as the campaign progresses. The DM may additionally decide to temporarily implement or augment a rule in the interest of keeping the game moving. If further clarification/discussion/research is needed, it will generally occur outside of actual gaming time.

Additionally, this guide is not static. As this setting is used it will evolve and change according to player’s preferences and decisions. Therefore, it is important to understand that the information presented in this guide is meant to be used as a generalized overview of the nearly-infinite possibilities that lie within this setting, and an orientation for how you as players can become involved in its evolution. The more it is played in, the more it will need revisions and addendums, which are inevitable. When in doubt, don’t hesitate to ask your GM for clarification!

As a final note, please keep in mind that this guide was compiled solely for the purposes of worldbuilding and creating a shared vocabulary between GM and player in the context of this homebrew setting. It is not meant to be widely distributed or used for purposes other than casual tabletop gaming. This guide makes use of a wide variety of content from other sources and authors, and claims no ownership of their original concepts or ideas; the recipe might be original, but many of the individual ingredients are not! Please take these creative liberties for what they are and understand that no harm was meant by the use of third party materials.